Add documentation of derived fields (#7329)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _field-types/supported-field-types/derived.md

| Type      | Emit format                      | Multi-valued fields supported|
|-----------|----------------------------------|--------------|
| `date`    | `emit(long timeInMilis)`         | Yes          |
| `geo_point`| `emit(double lat, double lon)`   | Yes          |
| `ip`      | `emit(String ip)`                | Yes          |
| `keyword` | `emit(String)`                   | Yes          |
| `text`    | `emit(String)`                   | Yes          |
| `long`    | `emit(long)`                     | Yes          |
| `double`  | `emit(double)`                   | Yes          |
| `float`   | `emit(float)`                    | Yes          |
| `boolean` | `emit(boolean)`                  | No           |
| `object`  | `emit(String json)` (valid JSON) | Yes          |

By default, a type mismatch between the derived field and its emitted value will result in the search request failing with an error. If `ignore_malformed` is set to `true`, the failing document is skipped and the search request succeeds.
{: .note}

The size limit of the emitted values is 1 MB per document.
{: .important}

## Searching derived fields defined in index mappings

> To search derived fields, use the same syntax as regular fields. For example, the following request searches for documents whose derived `timestamp` field in the specified range:

Reviewer: Reworded

        "_id": "1",
        "_score": 2.8754687,
        "_source": {
          "request": "894030400 GET /english/images/france98_venues.gif HTTP/1.0 200 778",
          "clientip": "61.177.2.0"
        },
        "fields": {
          "request": [
            "894030400 GET /english/images/france98_venues.gif HTTP/1.0 200 778"
          ],
          "clientip": [
            "61.177.2.0"
          ],
          "url": [
            "/english/images/france98_venues.gif"
          ],
          "status": [
            "200"
          ]
        }
      },
      {
        "_index": "logs",
        "_id": "3",
        "_score": 2.8754687,
        "_source": {
          "request": "894250400 POST /english/venues/images/venue_header.gif HTTP/1.0 200 711",
          "clientip": "61.177.2.0"
        },
        "fields": {
          "request": [
            "894250400 POST /english/venues/images/venue_header.gif HTTP/1.0 200 711"
          ],
          "clientip": [
            "61.177.2.0"
          ],
          "url": [
            "/english/venues/images/venue_header.gif"
          ],
          "status": [
            "200"
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```
</details>

> Derived fields use the default analyzer set in the index analysis settings during search. You can override the default analyzer or specify a search analyzer within a search request in the same way as you do for regular fields. For more information, see [Analyzers]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/analyzers/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Derived fields use the default analyzer specified in the index analysis settings during search. You can override the default analyzer or specify a search analyzer within a search request in the same way as with regular fields. For more information, see [Analyzers]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/analyzers/).
```

{: .note}

When both an index mapping and a search definition are present for a field, the search definition takes precedence.
{: .note}

### Retrieving fields

> You can retrieve derived fields using the `fields` parameter in the search request in the same way as regular fields, as shown in the preceding examples. You can also use wildcards to retrieve all derived fields that match a given pattern.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can retrieve derived fields using the `fields` parameter in the search request in the same way as with regular fields, as shown in the preceding examples. You can also use wildcards to retrieve all derived fields that match a given pattern.
```

### Highlighting

Derived fields of type `text` support highlighting using the [unified highlighter]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/search/highlight#the-unified-highlighter). For example, the following request specifies to highlight the derived `url` field:

```json
POST /logs/_search
{
  "derived": {
    "url": {
      "type": "text",
      "script": {
        "source": """
        emit(doc["request"].value.splitOnToken(" " )[2])
        """
      }
    }
  },
  "query": {
    "bool": {
      "must": [
        {
          "term": {
            "clientip": "61.177.2.0"
          }
        },
        {
          "match": {
            "url": "images"
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  },
  "fields": ["request", "clientip", "url"],
  "highlight": {
    "fields": {
      "url": {}
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> The response contains highlighting in the `url` field:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response specifies highlighting in the `url` field:
```

> The response contains highlighting in the `url` field:

Reviewer 2: "In the response, the `url` field is highlighted"? Also, should there be highlighting visible in the response?

          "clientip": "61.177.2.0"
        },
        "fields": {
          "request": [
            "894030400 GET /english/images/france98_venues.gif HTTP/1.0 200 778"
          ],
          "clientip": [
            "61.177.2.0"
          ],
          "url": [
            "/english/images/france98_venues.gif"
          ]
        },
        "highlight": {
          "url": [
            "/english/<em>images</em>/france98_venues.gif"
          ]
        }
      },
      {
        "_index": "logs",
        "_id": "3",
        "_score": 1.8754687,
        "_source": {
          "request": "894250400 POST /english/venues/images/venue_header.gif HTTP/1.0 200 711",
          "clientip": "61.177.2.0"
        },
        "fields": {
          "request": [
            "894250400 POST /english/venues/images/venue_header.gif HTTP/1.0 200 711"
          ],
          "clientip": [
            "61.177.2.0"
          ],
          "url": [
            "/english/venues/images/venue_header.gif"
          ]
        },
        "highlight": {
          "url": [
            "/english/venues/<em>images</em>/venue_header.gif"
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```
</details>

## Performance

> Derived fields are not indexed but are computed dynamically by retrieving values from the `_source` field or doc values. Thus, they can be slow to execute. To improve performance, try the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Derived fields are not indexed but are computed dynamically by retrieving values from the `_source` field or doc values. Thus, they run more slowly. To improve performance, try the following:
```

> Derived fields are not indexed but are computed dynamically by retrieving values from the `_source` field or doc values. Thus, they can be slow to execute. To improve performance, try the following:

Reviewer 2: "Thus, they can sometimes execute slowly"?

> - Prune the search space by adding query filters on indexed fields together with derived fields.

Reviewer 2: This sentence is a bit awkward. Should "together with" just be "to"?

> - Prefer using doc values over `_source` in the script for faster access, whenever applicable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use doc values instead of `_source` in the script for faster access, whenever applicable.
```

- Consider using a [`prefilter_field`](#prefilter-field) to automatically prune the search space without explicit filters in the search request.

### Prefilter field

> Specifying a prefilter field helps prune the search space automatically without adding explicit filters in the search request. The prefilter field specifies an existing indexed field (`prefilter_field`) on which to filter implicitly when constructing the query. The `prefilter_field` must be a text field (either [`text`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/field-types/supported-field-types/text/) or [`match_only_text`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/field-types/supported-field-types/match-only-text/)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Specifying a prefilter field helps to prune the search space automatically without adding explicit filters in the search request. The prefilter field specifies an existing indexed field (`prefilter_field`) on which to filter implicitly when constructing the query. The `prefilter_field` must be a text field (either [`text`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/field-types/supported-field-types/text/) or [`match_only_text`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/field-types/supported-field-types/match-only-text/)).
```

> Specifying a prefilter field helps prune the search space automatically without adding explicit filters in the search request. The prefilter field specifies an existing indexed field (`prefilter_field`) on which to filter implicitly when constructing the query. The `prefilter_field` must be a text field (either [`text`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/field-types/supported-field-types/text/) or [`match_only_text`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/field-types/supported-field-types/match-only-text/)).

Reviewer 2: Is "implicitly" necessary here?

> For example, first update the mapping for the `method` derived field by specifying to prefilter on the `request` field: 

Reviewer 2: "For example" doesn't work here because it's followed by an explicit instruction. Would something like "To try this" work instead?

```json
PUT /logs/_mapping
{
  "derived": {
    "method": {
      "type": "keyword",
      "script": {
        "source": """
        emit(doc["request.keyword"].value.splitOnToken(" ")[1])
        """
      },
      "prefilter_field": "request"
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

Now search using a query on the `method` derived field:

```json
POST /logs/_search
{
  "profile": true,
  "query": {
    "term": {
      "method": {
        "value": "GET"
      }
    }
  },
  "fields": ["method"]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> OpenSearch implicitly adds a filter on the `request` field to your query:

Reviewer 2: Is "implicitly" necessary here? Can this just read "OpenSearch adds a `request` field filter to your query"?

Reviewer: Reworded.

```json
"#request:GET #DerivedFieldQuery (Query: [ method:GET])"
```

> You can use the `profile` option can to analyze the derived field performance, as shown in the preceding example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the `profile` option to analyze derived field performance, as shown in the preceding example.
```

{: .tip} 

> ## Dervied object fields

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Derived object fields
```

> A script can emit a valid JSON object so you can query subfields without indexing them, in the same way as regular fields. This is useful for large JSON objects where occasional searches on some subfields are required. In this case, indexing the subfields is expensive while defining derived fields for each subfield also adds a lot of resource overhead. If you don't [explicitly provide the subfield type](#explicit-subfield-type), the subfield type is [inferred](#inferred-subfield-type).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A script can emit a valid JSON object so that you can query subfields without indexing them, in the same way as with regular fields. This is useful for large JSON objects that require occasional searches on some subfields. In this case, indexing the subfields is expensive, while defining derived fields for each subfield also adds a lot of resource overhead. If you don't [explicitly provide the subfield type](#explicit-subfield-type), then the subfield type is [inferred](#inferred-subfield-type).
```

For example, the following request defines a `derived_request_object` derived field as an `object` type:

```json
PUT logs_object
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "request_object": { "type": "text" }
    },
    "derived": {
      "derived_request_object": {
        "type": "object",
        "script": {
          "source": "emit(params._source[\"request_object\"])"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> Consider the following documents, in which the `request_object` is a string representation of a JSON object:

Reviewer 2: Do we mean "in which the `request_object` is a JSON object represented as a string"?

<details markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Response
  </summary>
  {: .text-delta}

```json
{
  "took": 26,
  "timed_out": false,
  "_shards": {
    "total": 1,
    "successful": 1,
    "skipped": 0,
    "failed": 0
  },
  "hits": {
    "total": {
      "value": 2,
      "relation": "eq"
    },
    "max_score": 1,
    "hits": [
      {
        "_index": "logs_object",
        "_id": "1",
        "_score": 1,
        "_source": {
          "request_object": """{"@timestamp": 894030400, "clientip":"61.177.2.0", "request": "GET /english/venues/images/venue_header.gif HTTP/1.0", "status": 200, "size": 711}"""
        },
        "fields": {
          "derived_request_object.@timestamp": [
            894030400
          ]
        }
      },
      {
        "_index": "logs_object",
        "_id": "2",
        "_score": 1,
        "_source": {
          "request_object": """{"@timestamp": 894140400, "clientip":"129.178.2.0", "request": "GET /images/home_fr_button.gif HTTP/1.1", "status": 200, "size": 2140}"""
        },
        "fields": {
          "derived_request_object.@timestamp": [
            894140400
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

</details>

> You can also specify to highlight a derived object field:

Reviewer 2: Is "specify to" necessary here?

```json
POST /logs_object/_search
{
  "query": {
    "bool": {
      "must": [
        {
          "term": {
            "derived_request_object.clientip": "61.177.2.0"
          }
        },
        {
          "match": {
            "derived_request_object.request": "images"
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  },
  "fields": ["derived_request_object.*"],
  "highlight": {
    "fields": {
      "derived_request_object.request": {}
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> The response adds highlighting to the `derived_request_object.request` field:

Reviewer 2: "In the response, the `derived_request_object.request` field is highlighted"?

        },
        "fields": {
          "derived_request_object.request": [
            "GET /english/venues/images/venue_header.gif HTTP/1.0"
          ],
          "derived_request_object.clientip": [
            "61.177.2.0"
          ]
        },
        "highlight": {
          "derived_request_object.request": [
            "GET /english/venues/<em>images</em>/venue_header.gif HTTP/1.0"
          ]
        }
      },
      {
        "_index": "logs_object",
        "_id": "4",
        "_score": 2,
        "_source": {
          "request_object": """{"@timestamp": 894340400, "clientip":"61.177.2.0", "request": "GET /english/images/venue_bu_city_on.gif HTTP/1.0", "status": 400, "size": 1397}
"""
        },
        "fields": {
          "derived_request_object.request": [
            "GET /english/images/venue_bu_city_on.gif HTTP/1.0"
          ],
          "derived_request_object.clientip": [
            "61.177.2.0"
          ]
        },
        "highlight": {
          "derived_request_object.request": [
            "GET /english/<em>images</em>/venue_bu_city_on.gif HTTP/1.0"
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

</details>

### Inferred subfield type 

> Type inference is based on the same logic as [Dynamic mapping]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/mappings#dynamic-mapping). Instead of inferring the subfield type from the first document, a random sample of documents is used to infer the type. If the subfield isn't found in any documents from the random sample, type inference fails and logs a warning. For subfields that seldom occur in documents, consider defining the explicit field type. Using dynamic type inference for such subfields may result in a query returning no results, a behavior similar to that of a missing field. 

Reviewer 2: "a behavior similar to that of a missing field" => "which may also occur when a field is missing"?

Reviewer: Reworded

### Explicit subfield type

> To define the explicit subfield type, provide the `type` parameter in the `properties` object. The following example defines an explicit type for the `derived_logs_object.is_active` field as `boolean`. Because this field is only present in one of the documents, its type inference might fail, so it's important to define the explicit type:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To define the explicit subfield type, provide the `type` parameter in the `properties` object. The following example defines `boolean` as the explicit type for the `derived_logs_object.is_active` field. Because this field is only present in one of the documents, its type inference might fail, so it's important to define the explicit type:
```

Reviewer: Reworded.

## Searching derived fields defined in index mappings

> To search derived fields, use the same syntax as when searching regular fields. For example, the following request searches for documents with derived `timestamp` field in the specified range:

Reviewer 2: with "a" derived timestamp

### Inferred subfield type 

> Type inference is based on the same logic as [Dynamic mapping]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/mappings#dynamic-mapping). Instead of inferring the subfield type from the first document, a random sample of documents is used to infer the type. If the subfield isn't found in any documents from the random sample, type inference fails and logs a warning. For subfields that seldom occur in documents, consider defining the explicit field type. Using dynamic type inference for such subfields may result in a query returning no results, like for a missing field. 

Reviewer 2: "like for" => "as with"
